CMPUT 275 PROJECT PROPOSAL

Project Title: Digital Logic Calculator and/or Drawing Program
Project Team:  Raghav Vamaraju & Udey Rishi


DESCRIPTION:

We plan to create a program that can both simplify and draw (using AND/OR gates, etc.) Boolean functions (BF).
Our program will integrate all of the skills taught in ECE 210 at UofA. This includes simplifying Boolean functions,
interconversions into different forms for each function (for example, POS and SOP forms), and drawing the corresponding
circuit diagram for each function. We will use a GUI for user input.



EXPECTED FUNCTIONALITY:

-Write BFs in simplest form (single variable case)
-Convert BFs into POS and SOP form
-Draw truth tables for BFs
-Write BFs in simplest form (either in terms of # of gates used, or # terms)
-Draw any of the above mentioned functions using digital logic gates



MILESTONES:

1. Writing tools and functions to deal with the math concerning Boolean functions. Deadline: Thursday, April 3

2. Text parsing for user input. If a user types in a function, our program will parse the string
and convert it into a Boolean function that can be manipulated the code written in milestone 1. Deadline: Thursday, April 3

3. Designing the GUI that users will interact with. It will have buttons and tools to 
manipulate Boolean functions. Saturday Night, April 5

4. Adding drawing capabilities to the program. After a user types in a function, the GUI will 
display the simplified form and an appropriate circuit diagram. Sunday night, April 6

5. If time permits, we will add a command-line interface that will provide all of the functionalities
of the GUI. (Comparable to the Octave command line). Monday night, April 7

6. If time permits, the user will be able to draw a ciruit in the GUI using built-in gates,
and our program will output the corresponding Boolean function.



DEMONSTRATION:

In our demonstration, we will input ANY Boolean function into the GUI, and our program will simplify it, 
manipulate it/convert it to different forms, and draw it. If we reach milestone 5, we will also
demonstrate the command-line version of our program (same functionality as the GUI).

